---
title: "Measure developer productivity using the SPACE framework"
date: "2021-12-23T05:31:18+00:00"
status: publish
permalink: /measure-developer-productivity-space
author: michaela
excerpt: "Dr. Storey explains how to best use the SPACE framework to measure the productivity of software engineering teams."
type: post
id: 121445
thumbnail: /Margaret-Anne-Storey.jpg
thumbnail_alt: "Picture of Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey"
category: ["Company Culture", "Women in Tech", "Remote Work", "Productivity"]
tag: []
post_format: []
post_header_image: /Margaret-Anne-Storey-background.jpg
audio: https://cdn.simplecast.com/audio/aaca909a-e34f-49ae-a86f-f59e4fa807f0/episodes/5f2f49ae-1df9-4c13-9a52-670548e10892/audio/f557f044-ac96-40a4-b6b4-f8f215a1a81b/default_tc.mp3
---

Dr. Storey explains how to best use the SPACE framework to measure the productivity of software engineering teams. Dr. Storey is a Professor of Computer Science at the University of Victoria and a distinguished expert in empirical software engineering.

We talk about:
- Productivity metrics for software developer 
- Developer experience as a different mindset to improve developer performance
- The SPACE framework, which focuses on giving a well-rounded understanding of developer productivity. of

<div class="sponsorship">Book your awesomecodereview.com workshop!</div>

Links:

- Dr. Storey's website
- The SPACE framework developed at GitHub
- Paper on improving developer experience 
- Please give me feedback here or write me on Twitter



## Transcript: Measuring Developer Productivity with Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey

[00:00:00] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** Hello and welcome to the software 
engineering unlocked podcast. I'm your host, Dr. McKayla. And today I have the 
pleasure to talk to Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey. Dr. Storey is a professor of 
computer science at the university of Victoria and a distinguished expert in the 
field of empirical software engineering.

[00:00:18] I had to pleasure to work with Dr. Storey on many occasions. Even 
this year, she joined me during a research I led on developer experience, 
looking at what makes developers happy and productive and leads them to stay 
longer and more engaged in their job. Today, I have her here to tell us more 
about developer productivity and especially, I want to know how can we measure 
it? How can we improve it? And so I'm super happy to have Dr. Story or 
Margaret-Anne, or actually Peggy how friends call you. Here on my show. Peggy. 
Welcome to the show.

[00:00:52] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Thank you very much, Mikayla. It's 
great to be here.

[00:00:55] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** In the last episode. I talked about my 
perspective on developer experience and developer productivity and well sort of, 
there was a little bit of a conclusion, uh, bottom line, which is that I think 
organizations and teams should stay right away from focusing on measuring 
develop. productivity and more think about developer experience. This means 
like, how do the developers feel about their work? Are they, are they feeling 
productive or are they happy? You know, do they feel that they make progress? 
Are they bothered by some tools and so on? But what is your take on measuring 
productivity?

[00:01:32] I know you did a lot of studies there, so you have a lot of 
expertise. What do you see? think?

[00:01:37] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** All of my research that I've done over 
the last few years has really pointed towards taking a lot of effort and 
understanding what you mean by productivity before you try to measure it. So 
what does productivity mean to you? I know that in your last podcast, you 
mentioned the space framework, and that is the summary of a lot of years of 
research that shows that, that there are many different dimensions to 
productivity.

[00:02:01] To some people it's about pull requests or lines of code they 
committed or features delivered to the customer or ability to be able to learn 
something new or help other people. You can't just say that there's one way to 
understand productivity or define it. There's many different ways and 
consequently, there's different ways of measuring it as well.

[00:02:23] It's interesting to say that we shouldn't measure productivity, but 
the fact is a lot of companies will still try to do that. And I think a lot of 
developers also try to think about how productive am I being? Am I being as 
productive as I think . I really like this pivot towards thinking about 
developer experience, which is what we worked on together.

[00:02:45] And you invited me to join that wonderful project that you've worked 
on. And I loved that because a lot of my earlier research really distinguished 
developer satisfaction from developer productivity, they're definitely related. 
So more satisfied, happier developers will be more productive and feel more 
productive and vice versa.

[00:03:05] But there is this difference. Developer productivity to me really 
it's about measuring what they do, right. Or how they do it. The amount of work 
that they were able to do, or the amount of value that they provide, whereas 
developer satisfaction or developer experience is more how they feel.

[00:03:22] And those are two quite different things. So I really like that 
nuanced change that you brought to that through developer experience.

[00:03:32] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** You brought up two things, which I think 
are also in my opinion, two extreme different things, which is the things that 
they do and the value that those things bring. I thought about this, especially 
in my entrepreneurial journey it even impacts me much more, so that everything 
that I do should also lead to impact and have impact and have value.

[00:03:54] Sometimes I see in literature that it's productivity versus 
performance where performance, a little bit more output oriented. But even 
there, I think it's really hard to grasp . So what is productivity? In my last 
podcast, I was comparing it to the industrial age where we really have off 
producing something which comes back to lines of code, and impact has nothing to 
do with lines of code.

[00:04:16] You can have one line of code in. it can have a huge impact. It can 
be a drastic bug, or it can be a line of code that really is such a satisfying 
thing for the customer. I think there are really a lot of nuances, and I wonder, 
people very often, I see them measuring productivity because it's the easier 
metric. I actually really liked the SPACE framework. I'm super inspired by it, 
but I'm also a little bit skeptical on the metrics side of it. I think it's so 
great to have it as a mental model to think about productivity in all those 
different variations. But then on the end we have like these metrics that are 
very isolated and then we try to stick them together.

[00:05:01] As I understand it. Right. You're the expert here. So I I'm happy to 
hear much more about that, but so we should have different dimensions and take 
at least three or something. Um, but then in the end, like we were taking very 
different metrics and how are we going to combine them? What will the 
combination tell us?

[00:05:18] Can we even interpret it? So these are all questions that are racing 
up in my hat. What do you think about that?

[00:05:25] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** I'm not a fan of developing a lot of 
metrics, honestly. Let me just maybe step back a little bit and just remind our 
listeners what the SPACE framework is about in case they didn't get to listen to 
your last podcast, which by the way was great. I loved your discussion. SPACE 
framework is very much an overarching framework to think about different 
dimensions of developer productivity. The goal behind it wasn't so much defining 
metrics, but just thinking about when we talk about productivity, what are the 
dimensions about productivity that we may mean, or other people may mean. So 
SPACE is an acronym, and the first letter is S and that stands for developer 
satisfaction and wellbeing. If we think about understanding developer 
productivity or improving developer productivity, if we make some change, say to 
improve developers productivity, we need to think about the impact of that 
change on developer satisfaction and developer wellbeing. The second one is P 
which is performance. So performance or the outcomes or the quality of the work 
that you're doing. And again, what performance means really varies from 
developer to developer, engineer to engineer, or managers. They all have 
different views about those performance outcomes that they care about.

[00:06:44] And then the last three dimensions, the A is for activity, which is 
what a lot of people think about when they think about development productivity. 
They think about lines of code. They think about pull requests. They think about 
features that are delivered to the customer. So that's kind of the typical one 
that developers tend to think about when you ask them about developer 
productivity. C is communication and collaboration. In the research that I did 
with now, thousands of different engineers, when you ask them, what does being 
productive mean to them?

[00:07:15] For many, they say it's about collaborating with others. How well I 
helped others and how well I collaborated with others. And that's not surprising 
because software development is such a collaborative activity. You don't write 
code by yourself anymore. And then finally, E which you also touched on is how 
efficient I can be. My ability to be able to get my work done without a lot of 
interruptions and my ability to get in that very pleasant flow state, so that I 
really feel immersed in the work that I'm doing. The work that I'm doing, isn't 
so challenging that I feel overwhelmed, but it's at that sweet spot of being 
challenging enough that I feel that it's very rewarding.

[00:07:53] Arty Starr also talks about flow in her book called flow about 
software development, and talks about the joy of development, which relates 
again to that experience and developer satisfaction. The SPACE framework 
honestly is very high level because it impacts all of those things, right? It 
impacts how developers feel their satisfaction and their wellbeing, the 
performance.

[00:08:15] So the quality, the outcomes of the project that you're working on, 
or the tasks that you're doing. And then it also looks at the activities that 
you do and then how you collaborate with others. And then that efficiency and 
flow part, which again, relates into satisfaction and has an impact on 
performance.

[00:08:32] So these dimensions, they're not stand alone dimensions. Maybe you 
make a change that makes developers feel more satisfied and their wellbeing goes 
up. So for example, you make a change that allows developers to spend one day a 
week learning something new.

[00:08:47] That could have an impact on their ability to collaborate with 
others. If they don't all work on that same day, they won't hear back from 
others and it might have an impact on their activity, at least in the short 
term. So you have to think about these together. In the SPACE framework paper 
that we wrote about, we spent a lot of time talking about these different 
dimensions and the fact that there are these different metrics. None of us, I 
think really believes that, okay. Take SPACE, choose three dimensions and then 
choose three metrics and you're done. That's not really the best way to use it. 
However, doing that would be better than choosing one metric.

[00:09:26] The benefit from space comes is thinking about these different 
dimensions and thinking about. What is it we understand about these different 
dimensions. What do you, and I understand about activity and what that means to 
have more outputs. When I say software quality, what does that mean to you? What 
does it mean to my peers on my team? What does it mean to my manager? What does 
it mean to my manager's manager? And when I say that I'm spending a lot of time 
collaborating. What does that mean to you? And what does that mean to other 
people and so on. So really thinking about those different dimensions, realizing 
that any change in one is going to have an impact on the other dimensions and 
coming back continuously to reflect on those and to reflect on how do we each 
think about these and how do we each think these will be affected if we do make 
a change to try to improve overall.

[00:10:18] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** One thing that came up also in the 
developer experience work that we did is this idea of between short-term and 
long-term. And I think, especially in measurements are falling short in that 
regard, right? With your example where you have wellbeing coming or going up 
because they're spending one day learning and then two other dimensions going 
down because now they have less overlap for the collaboration and they are 
writing less pull requests or lines of code. There's also another dimension, 
which would be maybe learning right. And learning then in terms of what's 
actually the performance of the engineers? Do they create better things, maybe 
they are inspired and all this becomes really intangible. How do we measure it? 
Is it happening right now? Maybe it's happening. We see this. If you measure the 
things wellbeing, let's say we have a survey and we ask people and we see 
well-being goes up, then we see from Git, well, the commits go down. We see 
maybe collaboration overlaps go down. We can measure that as well, but what's 
really hard to measure here is that, maybe somebody has an innovative idea. Or 
maybe somebody had this idea and learned something and this saved us from a bug 
or created the more maintainable software system because of the things that they 
learned here.

[00:11:35] This is a little bit my critique point here, and I really like your 
stand on it. It's just a mental model to help get all these different dimension, 
a little bit more organized, because there are so many things floating around. 
So this helps us looking at the SPACE framework.

[00:11:50] We can at least go through some of the dimension and we're not 
measuring it, but we make a thought experiment like I did right now and say we 
have a very strong feeling that in the long run our engineers will be more 
innovative. We'll be up to date. They will learn. They will maybe stay longer 
with us. I know that for every job that I was stuck, where I felt like I'm not 
learning. I was very unhappy . And I think a lot of engineers are like this, 
they want to learn. so I think maybe it's a nice mental model to think around 
those things.

[00:12:20] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** That's a really good summary. I'm going 
to just mention some of the more recent work that I did with Brian Hopkin and 
Tom Zimmerman, where we looked at alignment between different developers and 
their managers in terms of how they define productivity.

[00:12:34] And we also ask them how they define software quality. And what we 
found is that there are many, many different views of what productivity and 
software quality mean. If you're saying to somebody, should we use this new 
tool? Should we allow engineers to spend time learning?

[00:12:51] You have to unpack what are all of your assumptions about what the 
impact of that change will be on developer experience or the quality of the 
product, whether it's in the short or long-term and literally expose all of 
those assumptions, but also expose what it is that you don't know. 

[00:13:11] If we make this change or introduce this new tool, what are the 
things that we need more information about? And often enough, I've sat in on a 
lot of meetings and people are using terms like productivity and quality, and 
it's clear that they don't even mean the same thing. And yet they're in these 
meetings trying to make decisions, and these decisions are very strategic and 
the decisions are often made without really unpacking. 

[00:13:37] We have comfort when we have signals of what's going on, but software 
development is a very complex sociotechnical activity and you can't reduce it to 
these very simple metrics.

[00:13:49] This came out in the work that we did too Mikayla, but not 
everybody's the same, right? Some engineers might be happy not knowing what the 
impact is and they may be happy helping the people around them. And that's what 
they really care about. I helped four people today.

[00:14:06] I've worked with people like that. They're not egocentric at all. And 
they're less focused on understanding the vision. They're happy to help the 
people around them. There's no single way to measure this, even if we use 
surveys as well.

[00:14:19] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** There's so many good things that you just 
said that I want to touch upon. why are organizations striving for measurements? 
the higher up, the more we want some tools. We want to understand the world. And 
I think it's this idea of models. Of abstractions, because it's just too hard to 
grasp. So if you are the team lead and you have like five engineers. You 
probably have a really good idea of how things are going.

[00:14:45] Are we productive. Are we performing and so on? If you then the 
manager of managers and you have a team of 50, I think it's really hard to 
understand everywhere. Like, are we doing good? If you have an organization of 
500 engineers, it's like, I'm flying blind, right? I'm still really, really 
skeptical about building a model, which is so abstract that every model is 
wrong, that it doesn't reflect the reality.

[00:15:12] And it doesn't really help us. And I like what you said about, there 
are things that we know, but there are unknown unknowns? We don't even know what 
we don't know. And I think a lot of. Our activities in engineering or some of 
the else is about the unknown unknowns.

[00:15:27] We have to make decisions with the information that we have right 
now, to the best of our ability. And I'm really wondering if those metrics, if 
they're helpful, or is it just that we feel that it's helpful? Maybe it's, I 
think it's maybe helpful for somebody that has some agenda, right.

[00:15:43] So they want to come up and so now to make the metrics look great. 
And it's, again, this short-term vision of, oh, I want to Excel here. I want to 
be the VP of engineering here. So I make this because it's easy, right? And even 
if you have like five or six or seven metrics, we can tune them.

[00:16:00] We know that we can make people respond to it. We can't show that 
this is really the outcome that we strive for longterm, but it enables us maybe 
for some hidden agenda. And it's more personal than what we are actually going 
for this main goals. What's your perspective on that?

[00:16:19] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** I think that a lot of organizations use 
metrics because it helps have a handle on complexity. If I can somehow measure 
what's going on, then I can have confidence that the decisions that I made last 
week or last month or a year ago were the right decisions. Or I might get data 
back that indicates that those decisions were not right. And that we need to 
make a change. Good managers know that there isn't just one metric. They'll know 
that there's a host of metrics. And I think really good managers and really good 
leaders will also listen and ask the right questions to find out more nuances, 
more deeper understanding about what those metrics mean.

[00:17:02] I'm not saying don't use metrics. Use metrics and also have rich 
insights and be continually reflecting and revisiting your assumptions and 
thinking about, you know, what are are your goals. 

[00:17:15] Are our goals to sell more of our product? Well, yes. Right? Because 
we need the money to be able to make sure that our developers are well paid. But 
once we've done that what else are our goals? Is it to improve the culture so 
that when people come to work, that they feel secure and they feel safe and 
happy and they have psychological safety.

[00:17:33] Is our goal to retain our really best talent over the long-term and, 
and how will we do that? Understanding those goals and then understanding which 
of these metrics from a whole different set of possible metrics, I think is one 
thing to do, but really looking at what do our metrics tell us.

[00:17:52] But what do they also allied? Right? What do they hide? What are they 
wrong about? What is our data gathering? What is our data not gathering? Every 
time we define a metric, what risk are we introducing by using it? And what else 
do we need to gather? Like maybe some stories or insights to give us that full 
picture.

[00:18:10] That's why I think the SPACE framework is quite powerful because it 
helps us kind of identify a whole set of things that we need to ask questions 
about and that we need to listen to those answers, to be able to make better 
decisions in the future and make change.

[00:18:26] Whether it's change to address a problem or change to make some kind 
of improvement. There's a lot of different things to consider and it's an 
attempt to get people to slow down and not to rush, to define metrics and then 
create a dashboard and then look at it once a week and say, look, our numbers 
have gone up, wait a minute what's happening behind the scenes here. 

[00:18:46] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** So what comes to my mind when you talk 
about that is the goal question metrics framework ? And it's a little bit of a 
different approach. I always say, do not measure productivity. You know what I 
mean by that is in this very simplified way. I think the data is so, so 
powerful. And I think those things are two very separate areas. The critique 
that I have for how people use it is that they are creating metrics. But they're 
not data driven. I always felt like this connection because you had the same 
thought about data-driven investigations and research, which is we combine 
qualitative with quantitative. I personally really think that they're only in 
combination, they become powerful. 

[00:19:32] I think that only qualitative isn't as powerful, only quantitative 
can be extremely misleading. This is the metrics area that I'm talking about in 
the net critiquing so strongly. But I think that if we combine them, this can be 
extremely powerful.

[00:19:45] In industry, it hasn't really landed. It's also quite complex to 
combine that to have mixed research approaches. And behind the research 
approach, there is also a hypothesis. Questions that have to be tackled and so 
on. 

[00:19:59] I'm consulting organizations, where we look at their data because I 
think it's so powerful and it can help us guide and make decisions in this very 
complex world. But I'm always missing this qualitative aspect that we actually 
go and say, what does this mean? And so coming back to code reviews, it's 
turnaround time is on one hand super interesting metrics. On the other hand, 
it's completely meaningless. If I take it as face value, if I built a dashboard 
and I'm printing out turn around time there it's maybe meaningful for the first 
week. It only becomes meaningful if I do the qualitative work which means that 
now I'm digging deep and I'm trying to understand what's happening here. Why I'm 
seeing this number? Is this even a number that I should take at face value?

[00:20:51] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** Probably not most of the time, not. And I 
wonder how can we bring that to industry ? How can it be applicable and 
manageable for industry what's your take on that?

[00:21:01] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Oh, that's such a great point. I think 
that there are a lot of cases of industry that do use mixed methods and do use 
qualitative data and quantitative data. I've seen some examples of this and I've 
seen some examples be used really, really well. I don't want to mention any 
company or any person in particular, but I saw it with large companies.

[00:21:23] And I saw one colleague in particular. He went and he sat and he 
watched developers to see what their pain points were. And that was incredibly 
valuable to identify some really easy to solve pains.

[00:21:37] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Another example, this was more research 
that I did with, with Microsoft and we published this in our Tripoli software or 
my student, Laura McCloud. She was looking, we were looking at the data and 
looking at the. And she was going around and following sort of jumping from 
office to office and seeing what happened behind the scenes.

[00:21:57] The code review tools collect all of the telemetry of what happens 
that the tool records, but it doesn't record the engineer jumping over to 
somebody's office and saying, ah, by the way, I just tagged you in a, in some 
code that needs reviewing. Do you think you could do this quickly for me?

[00:22:13] Or, oh, I see that you submitted this code and it's got this really 
big problem with it. Do you want to fix it before you really send it to me to 
review it? Because they don't want to embarrass somebody by finding a big bug. 
So understanding what kind of happens behind the tools and behind the data is 
really, really critical.

[00:22:32] Sharing examples of this with companies and showing them why that's 
powerful to have these rich quotes, these rich stories. about what's going on to 
augment the data, to go hand in hand with the data, I think does shift how 
people approach it. 

[00:22:48] Data only tells us what's happening. It doesn't tell us the why. It 
doesn't tell us what we should fix. It doesn't always tell us what is actionable 
in here that we can change. So we may see over time that engineering 
productivity, according to the activity metrics goes down. But that doesn't tell 
us why it's going down, necessarily. We have to observe, talk to developers to 
find out what's going on here. Why are you not committing as much code as you 
used to? And then by talking to them, you can then get insights that help you 
make changes, and then you can use your metric to see, okay, is there a change? 
Do we see this change? 

[00:23:26] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** And I think especially with that one, it 
could be just a change of how people use the tool. Maybe they squash commits and 
we are commits 

[00:23:34] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Yes 

[00:23:34] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** Right. 

[00:23:35] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Yeah. 

[00:23:35] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** I think the, the biggest problem here also 
is that okay, if you have one team it's normally quite simple, but if you have 
several teams and they have very different work styles, then, these numbers 
really become meaningless.

[00:23:48] I would love to find more ways for organizations to bring that 
insight . This ability to actually have metrics. But not only have metrics 
really have measurements. I distinguish between measurements, investigations 
instead of metrics. I define it once and then, half a year later, they are 
outdated. They're not reflecting reality, but I'm measuring and I'm having data. 
I'm looking at data, I'm doing investigations . This investigation mindset. I 
think that would be so strong for organizations and the ones that I'm working 
with I see so many really good results. It's almost like enlightenment ? Where 
metric is a light somewhere making a little bit, in the dark, something visible. 

[00:24:28] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** The other thing that I've come across 
is that a lot of folks in industry think that interviewing or observing 
developers is very time-consuming and it doesn't have to be, you can learn a lot 
from sitting with your team at lunch and asking them, what are your barriers? 
What are the challenges that you face? How is your experience. And gathering 
those insights just even once a month can lead to a lot of insights that you can 
then use to make change. 

[00:24:59] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** I think one perspective that I also want to 
add here is that this qualitative aspect that I'm talking about, doesn't always 
have to be talking to people or observing people. It could be that there's a 
person that has this task and they're going in, they're investigating, let's say 
50 pull requests. And they writing down what's happening here, or the last three 
bugs, why did that actually happen? Some quality metrics or if you're thinking 
about metrics again, metrics for me would be oh, line coverage. But then a 
person really doing the investigation going and saying, why is this project so 
different in line coverage than that project ?

[00:25:36] Or why are people having those large pull requests over here and not 
there? And very often, if we then do the work, and I call this also qualitative, 
because you're not collecting data. It's not quantitative. You have to look at 
it, you have to investigate and you have to see, oh, actually this is very 
coupled ?

[00:25:52] This is the reason maybe there's a framework. 

[00:25:54] And metrics, don't tell you this story . And I think that this is 
really what's so important for engineers to improve the experience and to 
improve their productivity, their performance. To reduce their pain points

[00:26:06] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Actually, you reminded me of one good 
example when you talked about coverage We did this study that I mentioned that 
looked at the quality, how developers define quality and how managers defined 
quality. And we have this framework called truce, which is the timely delivery 
of robust features that delight users, support future collaboration and future 
evolution of the product. This definition of quality came from the developer and 
managers words that they gave us in the survey we did. Again, there are five 
dimensions ? Quality you can think of according to these different dimensions 
and test coverage is quite interesting because that would fall under robustness. 

[00:26:48] That you have really good tests for the code that you're delivering 
so that it will potentially catch some of the bugs that you have in the code 
that you push out today. But you might also have tests that don't necessarily 
cover the code as it is today, but are there to support change in the future. So 
they allow you to make changes in the future. Obviously they cover the code 
still, but they're more focused on not finding bugs today, but allowing somebody 
else on my team to make changes in the future. So how do you tease that apart? 
Understanding what it is that you're looking at is really, really critical.

[00:27:24] Metrics, if you use them or measurements, any measurements, if you 
use them in a blind way, you're going to be missing that nuance and they're 
gonna get stale. And people will misuse them. And they'll be abused and they'll 
be gamified. So really bringing that nuance in is critical and addressing the 
misperception, I guess, that it takes a lot of time to bring that extra 
information and it doesn't . We need to think about it and build a culture that 
it's important to ask these questions along all of these different dimensions. 

[00:27:56] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** I think there also have to be role models. 
But I totally agree with everything that you said. I actually think we are at 
the end. I'm so happy that you were here and I definitely will invite you 
again.So thank you so much, Peggy, is there something that you think makes this 
conversation a little bit more rounded that is still missing from this 
productivity idea?

[00:28:17] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** I guess, just to sum up that if you're 
thinking about developer productivity, also think about developer experience, 
and also think in terms of quality, like product quality and to really kind of 
think about those three independently and to think about if you make some 
changes or you're making decisions, what are the dimensions of each of those 
three things? What are those dimensions that you need to think about? And if 
you're working with other people. Find out what their assumptions are. If you're 
talking in a team and somebody is talking about developer experience or 
developer productivity or software quality to say, hang on a second, what does 
that mean to you? Even if you do that, I think it'll shift the conversation in 
the room quite a bit.

[00:29:03] **Dr. Michaela Greiler:** Unpacking their assumptions, this is so 
powerful. So thank you, Peggy. Thank you so much for joining my show.

[00:29:09] **Dr. Margaret-Anne Storey:** Thank you so much. It's been great.
