---
episode: "Episode 42: Karl Hughes"
permalink: /entrepreneurship-101
status: publish
type: transcript
---

[00:00:00] **Michaela:** Hello, and welcome to the soft engineering unlocked
podcast. I'm your host, Dr. McKayla. And today after pleasure to talk to college
Hughes, Carl is the software engineer who turned it entrepreneur in the midst of
the pandemic last year, his startup draft up that creates content that reaches
software engineers, which means that he combined his two passions development
and content creation.

Today, I will ask him all about his new business and what he ambitions and what
he wants to reach. So like, 

[00:00:31] **Karl:** Thanks for having me Mikayla. 

[00:00:33] **Michaela:** So maybe I introduced you a lot with this new startup,
but actually what I want to start off with is the startup or the side project
that I know you from, and that is CFP land call for paper land.

Right? How do you pronounce it thing? You see a few? 

[00:00:48] **Karl:** Yeah, we, I, I say, I say CFP land for short, but CFP
stands for call for papers or call for proposals depending on who you ask. 

[00:00:56] **Michaela:** Exactly. So it's, it's a sideways. I find all the
relevant tech conferences. Right. And then know where to submit it, how to
submit.

And so I think from that, I know actually your activities a little bit. And so,
so how is that going? Like it had had to been really hard for the pandemic and
everything. No, no, no conference. 

[00:01:17] **Karl:** Yeah, it's been a weird year and a half for CFP land. So I
started the kind of backstory on that. I started speaking at conferences a few
years ago and just for fun and to kind of get out there and meet more people and
learn things.

And so it was great. I had a lot of fun, met a lot of people, but one of the
challenges, a lot of the speakers. And we would always talk about it. It's like,
where do we find all the CFPs that are available when they close? Like where do
we apply? What kind of speakers they looking for? Things like that. And so I
started off CFE land.

It's just a simple newsletter, just running it. You know, it was very much a
side project and eventually I got. It grew. And it's now a website with a
newsletter it's well, over 2000 people subscribed to it. So it's a pretty
popular, I mean, this is a small world [00:02:00] of tech conference speakers,
but it's pretty popular within that small world.

So a lot of people do hear my name from it, but it's always been just a thing to
do on the side. I actually, the year, the beginning of last year, when right
before the pandemic happened, I was thinking about, as I was thinking about
starting with. Maybe I would make CFE land or something like it, a full-time
thing, which was fortunately, I didn't go all in on that site because it was
really, I mean, it went from, you know, we were getting consistently growing
traffic to all of a sudden, just almost to zero overnight and yeah, I mean, I'm
glad it was just a hobby project.

It's starting to come back. Now. Things are starting to, you know, conferences
are starting to like look at coming in person. And also just the virtual events
are starting to get more predictable. People are figuring out how to work them.
So all of it I think, is going to come back and it's going to be, you know, I'll
put more effort into it this year, but yeah, it's been a tough year for, for the
project and for anybody who's into event marketing and.

Yeah, I can 

[00:02:56] **Michaela:** imagine. I mean, I started off with on-site trainings
and it wasn't like good starting March, like grew up. So. And how, why do you
change from like you were employed before, right? You were a software engineer,
you were a manager. So how did you change from that to become your own boss? So
why, why during the pandemic, was that something that you did deliberately or
something that, you know, just the events happened and this is how it go.

[00:03:30] **Karl:** Yeah, that's a good question. So, you know, I've been with
the startup. Uh, I I've always worked in startups, tech startups, like small
companies, less than a hundred people. And so I started off just as a software
engineer and was then most recently like leading a team of engineers. And I
really enjoyed it. I actually liked my company a lot, but unfortunately the
business was pretty strongly affected negatively by the pandemic.

And so myself and the rest engineers went down to half-time to kind of conserve
money and make sure the company. Get through it and figure out what we're going
to do next. [00:04:00] And so in that half-time I started to explore, well, what
do I want to do? Maybe, you know, maybe I'll do something different next.

Maybe I'll try a career shift. So I started writing for fun on the side, just,
just kind of called up some people I knew and started writing technical blog
posts for them. And then I found some lists of places you could write technical
blog posts. And I realized there's a lot of people who want engineers who were
willing to write some blog posts on this.

I figured it was a good mix of my skills and it also was not negatively affected
by the pandemic, like speaking was and things like that. So I started doing it
and I realized quickly that there was a lot of companies that wanted this kind
of content and that I could work with other engineers to sort of increase my
output.

Knit draft out dev was kind of born out of just seeing so many people ask me,
Hey, could you write for us? And I just realized I only had so many hours, so I
better start bringing some other people in on this. So yeah, that it was really.
I needed something to do on the side. And then eventually it became a full-time
thing within three or four months.

I think I had transitioned out of my old job and was doing draft out dev
full-time with a very small team at first. Yeah. 

[00:05:01] **Michaela:** And so right now, are you still writing content? Are
you mainly managing people that write for you? 

[00:05:07] **Karl:** Yeah, mostly managing now. So it grew pretty quickly this
year. I think it's about quadrupled in size from what it was in January, which
is, feels surreal.

So I'm almost exclusively managing hiring and kind of helping other people get
unstuck. I still do a lot of sales calls as well, but the, yeah, the bulk of our
work is done by software engineers. Blog posts around the world. And so for
them, it's a nice little nice and weekends thing they can do. They make some
extra money and they get to learn new technology and write about it.

Show what they know for our clients. They're getting experts who are interested
in their tools and their tech tech that they write. 

[00:05:45] **Michaela:** Yeah. Cool. That's really cool. So how do you make the
match between the people that you know, right. And the people that want things
written? 

[00:05:55] **Karl:** Yeah. We've got kind of a word it's still an evolving
process for sure.

[00:06:00] We do some recruits. Of writers that are in specific skillsets when
need be. And then we put all of our writers into a list, and if you're on our
writer list, you get an email every couple of weeks. That's kind of like, here's
all the open opportunities for writing. And we have people sort of like give us,
just basically apply to, to write for each of them.

And we ended up trying to match up the best writers with the topics because, you
know, we tell a client might. An article done in PHP and JavaScript and Ruby and
you know, something else instead of like, we've got to find like a mix of
writers to cover all those, which is, can be really tricky. But our, our pool of
writers now is I think 50 or 60 active writers.

And so it makes it easier once you've got a pretty good volume of writers. Pick
up the assignments. 

[00:06:45] **Michaela:** Okay. And do you vet them somehow? Do you look at the
can right or that, I mean, there's also like a reason out there. Right? So
people just call from the side. 

[00:06:57] **Karl:** It's a huge, that's a huge undertaking. I mean, this is why
this is why clients like working with us because it is a lot of work to try to
find and vet good engineers who are also good writers.

So we do have a process. We start with a rubric, a skills rubric, but one thing
that I learned as an engineering manager was it's really helpful to hire people
based on objective criteria, as much as possible. That's not, you know, there's
always a little bit of fuzziness when you're working with humans, but like we
try to have like a pretty objective rubric that allows us to.

Great or rate each applicant based on specific criteria around like, how good
did they do at writing? How good are they do explaining deep technical topics?
How good were they at? Uh, things like communication and answering emails
promptly, just, you know, being in touch. Uh, and then we evaluate each
candidate and we'll accept or accept or ask for more samples from each one.

So we do ask for existing published samples or sort of written sample of their
work. You know, most of the engineers who were. Pretty experienced as far as
writers and engineers, because we are a lot of the topics that we cover are kind
of [00:08:00] hard to cover, uh, sort of things that most junior developers
would have a hard time maybe picking up on the first try.

[00:08:06] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. So maybe one thing that comes to my mind.
I'm also like a intrepreneur and I'm doing mostly workshops and cultural
workshops. I'm also doing consultancy right now. I'm doing quite a bit of
research again. And so that's, that's exciting, but on the other hand, but I'm
always feeling like I always have this urge I have to program again.

Right. So I'm not constantly programming because while that's not my job right
now, but if I like, if I'm in one source, Six big of a dollar 3d programming,
something. I feel like, oh my God, I'm losing cash. And I really want to go back
into it and I'm coding something on the side and I'm always like, I'm, I'm still
struggling with how to, you know, make that a habit that it's always constantly
there because I feel it's so, so important.

I mean, especially for me, but I think also if you are, you know, if you're a
Def shop for writers, I think it's important. Stay at death somehow. I don't
know. How, how is that for you? I think it's also the same for managing, right?
If you're in a managerial role and you're managing people, how far can like a
CTO or a engineering manager?

How far can they be away from actually doing the stuff? Right. I think it's so.
Um, I spent a lot of time, the last couple of weeks, really getting, knowing
everything about the latest code review tools that are out there and, you know,
all the studying and Ella analyzes again. And you have to do that, I think
periodically because otherwise you really lose touch.

How do you think about that and how do you, you know, how do you combine that
with what you do right. 

[00:09:41] **Karl:** Yeah, I agree. I think that there's a lot of value in
staying in touch with the technical skills. Even if you like, I've always
admitted to my employees and myself, I'm not the best engineer who's ever
written code.

Right. Like that's okay with me. It's okay. Really love working with people who
are good because they are way better because [00:10:00] then you get to see sort
of like, oh man, humbling experiences. Right. And reminds you. But I do think
it's important for engineering managers, CTOs, who are at least at smaller
companies, CTOs to stay at least somewhat connected to what's going on on the
ground.

So the way I do that, A couple of things. First I do occasionally for fun, write
my own technical articles. So I do it for say like guest posting on, uh, on
different blogs or maybe on my own personal site or other sites around that
people ask me to write for. So I do that some just to keep up with what's going
on.

I think I did pick up like a client article a couple of weeks ago because I
thought it was an interesting topic and I wanted to get my feet wet in it. And
then the other thing. Is I, well, what I find is that it is easier to pick up
new tech when you've already picked up several things along your career.

So unlike when you're first learning to code, you know, a lot of junior
engineers always ask like, well, how do you, how do you just pick up a new
language so quickly? I'm like, well, when you've learned four or five, the sixth
is not that much harder because a lot of the same paradigms, the same concepts
apply.

The same is true. If they. When you've used six different web hosts in your
career, likely the seventh one is not that much different so that you probably
don't have to learn everything from scratch. Same like any CIS CD tools, testing
tools, whatever, like, yes, there is some difference and yes, there's subtle
things that are important to know the differences between, but like, you don't
have to always be the, you know, you don't have to know everything from the root
level.

You just kind of have to get a good high-level sense of how is this different
from the other things I've done in the past that are similar. 

[00:11:31] **Michaela:** Yeah, that's true. I mean, as I said, I was looking at
study analysis tools recently and obviously it's different. Right. It's
different because it's more integrated in.

In dev ops, for example, in CII CD. Right. It's a little bit more automated, but
in the end it was the same, like the same as 10 years ago. Right. So, yeah.
Yeah, I totally, and, and the same, like for languages, [00:12:00] I feel that
picking up, and this is something that I really, I mean, I love to talk about it
because I feel like you can pick it up.

Fast, but then really getting really good at it. It's even, I think sometimes a
little bit harder if you have a lot of baggage, right? So like coming from the
object oriented Java and C-sharp world. And I recently it's not recent anymore,
but like two and a half years ago, I started with. And I mean, obviously I could
program and I could, could really productively do stuff within really short
amount of time.

I mean, it was days that I, you know, and, but then I feel like stuck and I feel
like, oh, it really took me quite some time to understand, you know, and feel
comfortable really that I know how to architecture and I've heightened. I could
architecture, but it was like it was a job or a C sharp application heightened.

Which didn't feel like it's not by tonic and it's not like how you would do it
in that language and learning that and changing the mental models that you
already have. I found that quite, quite interesting and tricky. How, how, how
has that. 

[00:13:06] **Karl:** I agree. I, that is tricky. I think one thing that I've
thought about in this transition from being like engineering leader, who's
expected to still really know the tech to more of a business owner is that I, I
don't necessarily have to be the best at those lower level, that lower level of
knowledge, right?

The specific implementation details. I may not always be the best, but at a high
level, I shouldn't have. How does Python work versus Java? Like I should know
that it's almost like knowing what you don't know is good. So knowing that I'm
not going to write Python at code, like you call it is maybe helpful more than
just knowing like exactly the best way to write Python, because you can always,
when you're, again, kind of going back, putting my business owner hat, My goal
is to make the company run well.

So that might mean hiring somebody who knows these things better than me. It
might mean hiring technical reviewers in the future. As I get less connected to
the day to day, it might mean hiring well, we already do this. We hire a lot of
[00:14:00] writers who are experienced in languages and frameworks that I really
haven't used much if at all.

So yeah, it's definitely important to like, know where your limits are and then
be like, ask yourself the question of, you know, is this the best thing for me
to learn myself? Or can I hire someone? To who knows it already and get even
more, more bandwidth out of this. 

[00:14:20] **Michaela:** Yeah, I like that mindset. I mean, in general, maybe
that's what I want to deep dive a little bit with you.

Is that mindset of, you know, the manager, a CTO or also a business owner? I
think I'm, I'm, I'm still struggling with that. I like two years ago with this
one. I totally didn't feel like it. And so even though I started already my
business, I would never say to myself, like, I'm the founder or, you know,
business owners thing.

I always say like, I'm a software engineer. Right? Like, and, and it really took
me one and a half years to say, okay, I feel a little bit comfortable. You know,
I'm doing now my tags and all of that, but I still, I still struggle with, for
example, sales. Right. It's just something that. I dunno, like, and, but you
were talking about Sage, like I'm doing sales calls and all of that.

So how do you get into that mindset of actually doing the stuff that a business
owner does versus, you know, doing the stuff that an engineer does? 

[00:15:17] **Karl:** Yeah. I mean, there's nothing, so I'll just like play the
other side and say there's nothing wrong with becoming a, a business owner
consultant who stays. Very much a software engineer.

Let's say, you know, I have several friends who are consultants or freelancers
that essentially like they, they have a very flexible, interesting work where
they can do, you know, work for several different clients, but they don't really
have a bunch of employees there. It's kind of just them being a freelancer.

And that's a great, that's fine. There's nothing wrong with that. But if you
sort of. If your goal is to build a company that runs either without you, or it
runs with you being able to take a vacation, things like that, then you kind of
have to step out and figure out what it means to be [00:16:00] a business owner
and a team leader rather than a.

Team like a doer, you know, the person who's touching every piece of content or
whatever. So it just depends your goals, right? Like there's nothing wrong with
either path. My goal went in starting draft was, I mean, it was initially just
like figure out if this was like something I wanted to do. And then I realized,
yeah, it's something I want to do.

There's a lot of people who want it. So I kind of, my long-term dream has always
kind of been to start my own company and run it. And so this has just been like
a really good opportunity at the right time and place, but it is hard. And one
other thing that's really hard about it. Letting things go to other people when,
you know, you could do it better yourself.

And I still struggle with that. I mean, like there's some articles that come
through and I, I read what the writer wrote and I'm like, yeah, it's not bad,
but you know, I know I would do this better this differently or whatever it is.
It's so hard to let that stuff go. And I, I don't know what the answer is.

If you get yourself booked so solid that you can't possibly do it all yourself,
that will force you to get good at delegating or you'll just fail. So that's one
way you can do it too. 

[00:17:06] **Michaela:** Yeah. True. True. Yeah. I think I'm like right now, I'm
also in a place in my business that I'm thinking. What are my next steps, right.

So I grew to a capacity level where I just can't, like, I'm saying no to a lot
of things, but I'm not set up in a way that I can take that on and delegate.
Right. And, and I, and I know maybe it's also mindset again, it's not only
mindset. It's also like, if you're already at capacity, how do you get a person?

And how do you know, you know, like how do you get them to the point that they
could actually take off and do stuff. Right. So even for the podcast, I actually
have like, And little advertisement out there that, you know, I want somebody
that helps me with the podcast. I haven't found anybody yet, so yeah, I'm really
admiring that you say, well, you have like a couple of full-time engineers,
right.

That are writing for you. And then like these large network of people that
[00:18:00] are working with you a little bit more in a loosely coupled way and
was just in a couple of months. Right. So how did you get the first. 

[00:18:08] **Karl:** Yeah. So this is my process for this. I I'm a huge nerd for
process. So like it it's, it's excessive at times, but I'll just like, be bare
it all out here.

What I do is I track my time. So I'm pretty diligent about that. And that tells
me like, am I spending say eight hours or 20 hours a week writing articles. So
at some point I reached a critical mass where I was writing. 20 or 30 hours a
week. And I realized, okay, if I want to spend 10 to 20 hours a week on sales
and marketing, I cannot keep writing.

I have to stop and pull this out. So I started to look for other writers. And so
that was my first step. What I first did to, to hire the very first one was
looked into my network and people I trusted already. So I was like to think of
the first hire for any position is kind of your trailblazer is how I call what I
call them.

And that means. You're going to give them very imperfect information, but you
need them to be smart enough or have worked with you enough to have a high level
of trust with you. Like, you know, this kind of goes back to your point about
the podcast person. You do want to be picky in that very first hire because
they're going to help you set forth a process, then you'll be able to imprint
onto other people in the future.

So that very first, right? Yeah. Was a friend of mine who I knew could write,
well, he had a similar background in writing engineering and he was, we were in
the same city. So we could talk if we need to did a great job, he helped me
figure out what things are clear and not clear when I pass work over to a writer
from a client.

So that was my first step. And then the next thing is to build like a template
for what this work looks like in the future. And me and him just kind of like
trial and error basically figured out what, what worked and what, didn't, what I
needed to give him, to make him. All the information you needed to write
articles.

And then we start, I started to test it out with other people. So I found people
outside of my network, who slightly, I didn't know, quite as well or didn't
trust quite as much, or didn't have as much experience. I just started to try
them out and see what happened. And then [00:20:00] that helped me refine the
process even further.

And so by December of last year, I was starting to ramp down on my writing and
ramp up with these other writers. I found a new bottleneck and that new
bottleneck was, I was spending a lot of time editing and editing was also very
tedious detail oriented work that I tend not to be the best at or the, like, it
doesn't, it doesn't get me excited.

It just drains me. And so I started looking for an editor and I kind of did the
same thing. I started with someone, I knew someone I trusted and. Pay them
really well. And I was like, look, I don't know how to edit, but you've done it
professionally for years. Could you edit this article? And like, help me come up
with a process and style guide.

And she's now our managing editor and she's full-time and she has a couple other
editors she works with now or under her. So I kind of followed this exact same
process every time I want to make a hire, just do that account manager. I'd done
like a marketing person. And it is hard. It is definitely something that you're
going to like, you have to be okay with that person, screwing some things up.

You can't expect them to pull everything out of your head, but if they free you
up to say, spend more time on the growth side of the business, the sales,
marketing, the stuff that generates new business and keeps clients really happy.
And coming back then it's worth those slight hiccups that are going to happen
because that's the only way you kind of get a bigger company.

[00:21:14] **Michaela:** Yeah, that's true. Yeah. But you know, the funny thing
is that, you know what I did, I started to automate. 

[00:21:22] **Karl:** Well, that's a bad, yeah. I think that's a really viable
option if you, I mean, this honestly, like hiring people should be like your
second resort. Like the first resort should be automating everything as much as
possible.

Yeah. 

[00:21:34] **Michaela:** That's what I tried to do. I honestly, when I looked
into that, I thought that couple of things you can really automate very well and
they're nice tools around and a couple of things were still really imperfect,
right? So like the editing for the podcast. For example, even though I upgraded
my tools and my process.

I actually have is a step-by-step guide, how to do that. Right. But the
automation is not completely, like, you cannot really [00:22:00] automate that
too much. There's so much manual, still manual thing. But for example, the whole
booking guests and things like this, there is a lot of potential for automation
that you can actually do before hiring somebody.

Maybe another topic that I want to pick your brain on is, well, when you hire,
right. Do you have also to think about how much of the money that you get from.
Business. Right. Are you investing in the higher again? Right? Which for me is
also a little bit tricky to do. I mean, especially podcasts, it's not really
making money.

Right. So it's also harder than to say, well, you know, like you're hiring
people, but how has that for you? Like. Would you say that at that point it's
okay. If the company's had a loss or does it have to be, you know, positive or
neutral or, you know, what is your thinking about how much do you spend for
hiring and growth and how much does the business have to, you know, sustain
itself as a, as a bootstrap business?

Right. So funded business. Yeah, 

[00:22:57] **Karl:** it definitely, this definitely depends on the kind of
company you have and the way that cashflow works and the way that if you've
raised money, it's a different thing than if you're bootstrapping or
self-funding. And so I've seen it done both ways. Like when I've worked at
funded startups, the way they did it is, you know, we raise a big chunk of money
and that sits in the bank essentially.

And then we start to hire a head of where. It's like basically you hire for what
you want to be at in a year. So we bring on five or 10 people all really
quickly. And then we try to like get to the point where we can actually support
them. So that's risky obviously. And if you're you're bootstrapping, that's not
really an option.

I didn't have hundreds of thousands of dollars sitting in the bank to just work
from. Right. So, so the way that I did it was sort of when I started draft, I
started to think about. Okay. I don't have a lot of money. How could I build a
business? Basically, clients helped me pay for these things. So what we do is
we, we get, we get clients pay upfront and that helps us know we've got the cash
in hand to pay the writers, editors, and anyone else supporting staff that we
need.

The. Three or six months of execution. So it's like, we kind of [00:24:00] make
the plan with the client up front and then they pay us and then we actually get
into production and then we start paying people, but the client's already paid
us a large portion upfront, or they've been on a payment plan or whatever. So
that helps a ton with being able to know that what we're doing is profitable.

The other thing that I do is a forecasting. So basically looking. How much, it
costs us to produce an article, how much we can have to charge for that. And
then where's the like margin, you know, the profit essentially, but in how much
that margin goes to other things like support staff, other support staff that
isn't really counted there, or services or tools to your point about automation.

I'm big on that too. I spend a lot on. SAS tools that automate a lot of these
little things behind the scenes. Yeah. So Zapier and even Calendly and having
all that stuff, just kind of automatically do this little administrative work is
really, really helpful. And I think it does allow you to run a lot leaner
business.

Even if you pay all the subscription fees, it's still cheaper than hiring
people. 

[00:24:59] **Michaela:** Yeah, exactly. That's that's also what I. Especially
when you're like, when I was completely bleeding footsteps and, you know, even a
$10 subscription somehow really string because they add up, right? Like they add
up and if you're really making zero money, it's like, oh my God, how I'm going
to do that.

But then if you, if you're a little bit profitable, I think automation is really
a. You say, well, I'm paying like 10 bucks for Kalindi, for example. Right. And
now it does all the magic and sends email reminders and whatnot. Right. And
thinking about how much time I would have to spend here to do that. Yeah.

So in the end, you're always, is it something like, would you say that you are
getting a salary right now? Do you try to, to really you are sustain it as well?
Or are you saying well I'm as a founder right now, I'm investing my time before.


[00:25:48] **Karl:** Yeah, I do take a salary, you know, since the, since it
started one of my, I don't know, one of my, my goals with it was like, I do want
to pay myself something.

I, I definitely make less than I did as a CTO to start out. I'll [00:26:00] say
that, but you know, to your point, like I'm investing my time centrally into the
business. So I'm working at a discount to pay for the company to grow, which is,
you know, a fair deal for a lot of entrepreneurs, you know, with a service
business like ours.

Uh, there's different kinds of companies, right? Some companies like a software
as a service kind of tool, you can probably take, you probably have to take no
salary for longer because it takes a long time to ramp up to the amount of
revenue that you can then pay yourself. But with a service business like ours,
that's pretty high dollar.

We, you know, we make a lot of cashflow into. We've got to like, essentially I
wanted to build into our cost structure, a person like me to run things because
it's not like I, even if I didn't work in the company, somebody would have to do
what I'm doing. So I don't think there's a way that you can run this business as
a real business without having somebody in that seat.

Even if I'm working at a discount. You know, keep things going a little longer.
I still have to budget something for this in the future. So I think that's
important. I also think that it, again, like, kind of is like business
fundamentals. You want to set your business up in a way that can, that it is
realistic.

Like if, if you make a small business and it. Like pays you anything like you've
just made yourself like into a, I mean, that's, that's really terrible, you
know, that's a lot of work to get nothing out of it. You may never get to a
point where you can sell it or whatever you don't know. So I think you at least
have to cover your basics, but I do, you know, I think it's also, I would prefer
to invest more back into the business than to take more out at this point.

Now I don't really need a ton of cash, I guess. 

[00:27:30] **Michaela:** I personally always think that you have to love the way
and the progress, right? Not only that, because otherwise you could really end
up with a lot of regrets. So unless you sat, right, you probably don't. I mean,
it depends on how much you need right now from a supportive perspective on no,
how much money cashflow do you need right now to feel that.

And then you can invest into your business and the growth and that's the end
goal. But I also think like if you're starving on the way, it's not that it's
not just the [00:28:00] right. Yeah. Yeah. 

[00:28:01] **Karl:** I mean, it depends, you know, if you've got a bunch of
money that you've saved up and that can be your bankroll for a while.

Sure. You might be able to do that. But yeah, everybody's circumstances are
different. Like I knew that I didn't have that, so I couldn't start a business
that was going to take me two years to pay myself. It just, wasn't an option.
I've got a family to help support, you know, so for some people, I think.

Engineers who want to become entrepreneurs? They think like, oh, I'll just build
a software product. And that's the, you know, I'll, I'll grow it. But like the
time required to grow, that is huge. And the amount like you have to think and
be realistic with yourself, about how much runway as we call it, do you have to
make no money?

And if you don't have a lot of runway to make no money, then maybe that's not
the right kind of business for you. Maybe you need to think about like, eh, is
there another more service business where you can get some more cash in the door
early? Or is there a. Info product or a course kind of business, you can start
where you get more money in the door, early, things like that.

[00:28:55] **Michaela:** Yeah. I also think that, I mean, even if you do a
software product, really trying to gab people paying for it as early as possible
is super, super valuable because it keeps you honest. Right? Like having 200
people sign up for freestyle. You know, feels really good from, from an
endorphin perspective or dopamine, but is it, is it, is it I actually underwrite
way, right.

And you don't want to feel like invest all the time three years and say, well,
you know, I'm, I'm investing all of my time and you know, which is, I think a
very noble goal to do, but. Three years you realize, actually not that I want to
charge for it. You know, nobody's really interesting. So actually starting with
something and putting a price tag on it, I think is a really good.

Strategy also to know whether or not that is valuable, right. Or, or how to
tweak it, that it becomes something that people want to also pay for. Or, and
for engineers, it's not that easy. I think engineers is a specialist species
that are, I was actually talking with my [00:30:00] husband lately about what
are we paying for?

Right. And there are a couple of. The IDs are all free. I mean, he's actually
paying for it for his 

[00:30:09] **Karl:** ID. I pay for mine too, 

[00:30:13] **Michaela:** but a lot of them are free and they're really good. And
then the other tools are all also free or either the organization pays for it.
Yeah, I dunno. I think we are, we are too bunch.

[00:30:27] **Karl:** Yeah. I mean it is. But the other thing to think about one
thing I've found that was surprising until I started the, this business was that
your pricing will determine your. In a lot of ways. So for example, just in
draft dot Deb's case, if I charged half of what I do, I could probably open
myself up to different kinds of customers that I don't have today.

But the downside is, you know, we wouldn't have the money to hire other people.
So we wouldn't be able to do things at the scale we're doing. And so we'd have
to scale way down. We'd have to be very limited in who we worked with and it
would just be a different company and there's nothing wrong with that.

There, it just is like different price points end up enabling you or pushing you
into different market segments. And so when you go with the free market segment,
like you said, that may not be the people who you actually need to pay you
later. So companies that do freemium, a lot of times, what they'll try to do is
roll those free subscribers up into a company plan later.

But if you don't have outside investment, that's really hard. It takes a long
time to get there. Yeah. Yeah. So it, again, it kind of goes to like, be
realistic about if you're bootstrapping and self-funding like, can you really
afford to do that kind of freemium strategy? And like, usually the answer is
probably not.

Yeah, 

[00:31:42] **Michaela:** yeah, exactly. Yeah. You're right. So. When I get from
what you're explaining here is that you also have a little bit like higher
paying clients, a little bit companies that you have contracts with. So how do
you get them? You were talking about sales. How do you do sales? And you
[00:32:00] know, like how did you get that?

[00:32:02] **Karl:** So early on what I did was I said yes to anyone who wanted
me to write an article for them. And so what I started to learn was which kinds
of companies, what size of companies, what kinds of teams that are hiring me are
the ones who are least price sensitive or most willing to pay the highest dollar
amount, because they got the most value from the article.

So. You know, for example, I could write the same great article for a team, like
an engineering team that wanted some content for their blog. As I could write
for a marketing team that wanted content to put out to the public to make sure
that engineers knew about their product. It could be the same article that was
just as good.

But that marketing team would pay me two to three times as much as an
engineering team would because that article leads directly to revenue for the
company. So it's a totally different business model and sit like you have to
think about that. When you think about pricing services, there's a guy out there
named Jonathan Stark who talks a lot about value based pricing.

And while I don't, I wouldn't say we're like a value based price service
entirely. We think about that a lot, because what he's saying in value based
pricing is you should charge. The amount of value a client gets from your
whatever work, your service. If an article is, let's say for our case, like if a
company can clearly make $2,000 of revenue from one article, we write over the
course of a year or two, let's say our articles are a great investment.

You know, that is a clear winner and they will pay us, you know, up to that,
whatever, probably half of $2,000, a little more or whatever. So that's that
side one. If on the other hand, the company is not sure of their revenue per
article like that. They don't know how many visitors it's going to attract.

They're really nervous about that. Or maybe. They know that each article only
gets $300. They're never going to pay for our services. They're not a good fit.
And so that's where, like, to me, the, the, the hard part of sales quote
unquote, is figuring out who the ideal target market is that has the willingness
to [00:34:00] pay and actually gets a good value out of our service.

Um, and so the clients that, you know, sure. I have people all the time and say
like, yeah, you guys are too expensive. That's totally fine. Like, Set up to do
that kind of low cost work, but I have a lot of clients that think we're a great
value and they probably would pay more if we charge more. But like, you know,
there's a sort of a limit to where yeah.

The pricing pushes you into different markets. And so anyway, I think that the
big part of sales is figuring out how to narrow down your market as much as
possible. And so for us, it's like started off as just like, we'll write any
technical content and then it got more narrow and it's like, Technical content
aimed at software engineers, but then we started to narrow down even further to
like start ups who are trying to hit, trying to get in front of software
engineers from their marketing teams.

And so now we're like super narrowed down and it makes it really easy to have
sales calls, like, because I basically know there's only a few hundred companies
in the world. Need to work with us anyway. So it's a really small list. They all
know each other's, there's lots of introductions and referrals. So you know
what, we're not going to be like the next Facebook size company ever.

That's fine. We're doing really well in the small thing that we're good at. 

[00:35:01] **Michaela:** Hmm. And so you're also Dan, redirect, you going to a
marketing head of marketing and pitching deeper, or how do you, and do you use
like LinkedIn or sites like that to find those. 

[00:35:16] **Karl:** I don't do a lot of outbound like that. You know, there's
kind of two kinds of sales and marketing and it's called outbound or inbound.

I am not much of an outbound outreach to people kind of sales person every now
and then I we've tried it a couple of times. It's just like, I don't like it. It
doesn't seem to be that productive. We do mostly inbound and referrals, which
means that people see the content we're writing out there in the internet and
they say, oh, that company did a good job.

Let's go talk to them. Or they see, they talk to a, another client of ours who
gives them the recommendation or they see maybe my, I share a lot of things on
LinkedIn and Twitter. And so they, they see that and they contact me directly
through that. We're also doing some like meetup groups and conferences, things
like that too, to kind of get the word out a little more.

To be [00:36:00] honest, like at this point we've had enough business from this
inbound stuff that we haven't needed to do a lot of direct outreach. So I think
that's ideal if you can get that set up, but it does take, I mean, I spent a lot
of time building a reputation and the connections and networks. So like, that'd
be hard to replicate if you were somebody earlier on in your career.

[00:36:17] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. I'm also completely a hundred percent
invalid because there's just like this. I don't want to do it. Like I, you know,
whenever I get an email from somebody, I don't know, it feels like spam, but I
don't want them to be that person. Right. Like, I don't know, like it's also
mindset obviously, right.

Because I know a couple of really, really wonderful, safe people that I also
tried to learn a little bit about, and it never feels like they do it in a way.
That it doesn't feel like, you know, it's this LinkedIn message that you get
like that, you know, went out to 1000 people and drinks the same rate. So, but
yeah, I've never, I've never tried it and I'm not really eager to try it
anyways, but yeah.

So it's, it's inbound. Right. So do you write on your own blog as well? Do you
write content for yourself or content 

marketing? 

[00:37:08] **Karl:** Yeah. Oh, quite a lot. I try to write at least an article
or two a week, sometimes more. Yeah, I, so I write for my own personal blog and
then the draft.dev company blog quite a fair bit, although I've been trying to
get more writers for that as well.

And then guest blogs, whenever they come up, whenever people just happen to see
something and want, want me to write about? Yeah. I think writing is a really
powerful career booster. Even if you don't become self-employed as an engineer,
I was just talking to one of our writers the other day and they were telling me
about how.

Writing this article on some new technology. I don't even remember what it was,
but they got to write this article on a cool new tech that they'd never used at
their day job. And they now get to put in their resume, you know, Hey, I've
worked with this and look, I can prove it. I've got an article out there that I
wrote, and that's really powerful because like at our day jobs, like as a
software engineer, I would usually get to work in like one or [00:38:00] two
languages, one or two frameworks at a single company.

Company doesn't want to have 30 different tech tools they're using. They don't
always want to experiment with the newest things. It's not worth it. But with,
uh, with written content, a blog posts, you can go explore and try the try five
or six new things over the course of a year and get those published.

And now you've got proof that, Hey, I know all the cool new stuff that's been
happening. So I think even if you don't go, the self-employed. There's a lot of
advantages to writing, but if you do go the, like become a freelancer or
consultant or starting a business, having all this writing out there on the
internet is extremely powerful.

I mean, there's people who reach out to me because of articles I wrote three or
four years ago. And so it's just this like compounding interest effect of good
content being out there. And so you just never know when that stuff's going to
really pay off. 

[00:38:48] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah, I totally totally see that, but it also
takes really long time.

Like if you want to run, you have no idea about that tech. It really takes time,
right. Especially if you want to. I mean, probably an introductory to something
is quite easy to ride, but when it gets a little bit more. Substantial that it's
definitely like, for example, I'm thinking about all studying analysis tools
that I analyzed over the last weeks.

Right. So I'm thinking about what I'm going to do with it. And if I'm going to
create a YouTube video out of it or blog posts, definitely. I mean, I don't know
how long are you people spending on a, on a Blackboard. Probably would spend
from my own block bars. It would take me several days to do that. Right.

To have that blog posts that you want to bring out there. How is that for you?
How long do you spend on a. Well, it 

[00:39:39] **Karl:** does get passed. Yeah. There's definitely different kinds
of articles that require different levels of time, commitment and research and
all that. But I think you do get, I've gotten faster at writing since I've been
doing it more.

I'll say that I, you know, before this year I probably wrote a blog post a week
on average, you know, maybe. 2000 words or a little less [00:40:00] now I, you
know, writing a couple of week and having written even more, some at some point
throughout this year, I've really taken that average time way down. So I don't
really have a, I don't know what, I don't have an hour number or anything like
that, but I do know it's like usually with a good solid day, I can finish up a
single blog post unless it's something really, really specific.

And then maybe it's a two day thing and you know, it. Uh, you know, whether you
should invest the time to get faster and better at writing blog posts. I don't
know. That's, uh, you know, depends on what your goals are and what you're
looking at do, but even just writing one a month, you know, you think about,
again, like this compounds over years.

And so one blog post a month is only 12 a year, but then you do it for five
years. And now you're talking like 60 blog posts. That's a lot, like a lot of
people never write 60 blog posts in their life. So I think there's some just,
you have to think about doing things consistently over time and the value of.

[00:40:50] **Michaela:** Yeah, true. And do you, do you use any software for,
you know, helping you with the writing process? For example, the Rome research
would be one, or I'm using obsidian. It's a, it's an open source version, which
is very similar to it, which I think is a good way to, it's like a second brain
and you can link your resources.

And I think it helps with writing. I recently started like half a year, but do
you use something like that for your, for your process to, you know, keep track
of what you read and what you want to write about your idea? 

[00:41:20] **Karl:** So definitely I keep a journal call called like a swipe
file or marketers called swipe file of ideas and things that I think about
throughout the day or week or year, I do keep a swipe file.

And then I also, as I start to like refine a topic, I start to create an outline
of like, what ideas do I need to include in this article and how do they link
together? So it's, it's really hard to write. Just boom, like bam out of blog
posts without doing some research and, and outlines for me first. And actually I
think this is one of those, like, time-saving hacks that a lot of people don't
do, they just jumped straight into writing.

And so then they get this mess of like ideas and then trying to fix it all
later. It's really hard. If you spend more time researching and outlining
organizing, [00:42:00] it usually comes out better. And then I, you know, on the
back end of things, like I use Grammarly pretty heavily because I go into back
to my, I'm not a detailed person.

Like I I've gotten better and faster at writing, but at the same time, I missed
punctuation and like spelling and all the little stuff. Right. So Grammarly is
kind of my savior there. I always highly recommend if you're going to write
consistently, I think it's free. You usually, so there's no reason not to use
it.

And even if you pay a few bucks a month, that's it very well. 

[00:42:30] **Michaela:** Yeah. Yeah. I also use Grammarly and it helps quite a
bit. Yeah. Yeah. 

[00:42:35] **Karl:** It's not perfect. And I mean, we have like re yeah. We have
like real editors, human editors as well, because there's definitely things that
won't catch, but it does, it can get some little things that are, yeah.

[00:42:46] **Michaela:** It's really nice. Yeah. There are a couple of things
that, because I'm not a native speaker, right. So sometimes it corrects me. I
think you're right, but I'm not right now. Like, and then sometimes I go with
Grammarly and sometimes I just leave my stuff because I feel like it's not
always correct. Right. But, you know, yeah.

I really like it. I can recommend it as well. Yeah. It's really cool. Cool. So
maybe the last thing that I wanted to ask you is, so you transitioned from
software engineer to CTO, right? So it means a lot of managing as well. People
managing and. You know, doing your own thing. I guess this people managing
already at the, at the startup already helped you to get a lot of those skills
that you need now to delegate, to understand, to hire people and, you know, to
have this, I mean, you have brilliant large company already within a couple of
months, right?

So do you think that the CTO role and the managing role really prepared you and.


[00:43:47] **Karl:** Yeah, definitely. There's a couple of key things that
having some roles with startups helped me with. So first I came in as the first
employee, basically at the last two startups I was with maybe first engineer,
[00:44:00] but whatever is like within the first four people at the company.

So I got to see everything. I mean, you get to see the founders going through
raising money and pitching the investors. I got to see how they hired people,
how they dealt with. Cashflow and like deciding, you know, how who's going to do
their accounting. Like all these little nitty-gritty things that are not
engineering, but at the same time, you just get exposed to, by being in a small
business.

So getting to see that firsthand kind of gave me like, oh, okay, those are the
things I would think about. If I started my own business, you know, that was
part one part two was it gave me a huge. A lot of connections in software
startups, which are now kind of my target market for the clients we have. So
that has been really good from that standpoint as well as well.

And then the last thing was not being afraid to hire. People, have to fire
people have to give them performance evaluations. Like all those management
tasks you just said, it was super helpful to get the opportunity to do that in a
protected environment. That wasn't my own company where, you know, I think I
tried really hard to be a good manager.

There's a little less pressure when the company doesn't depend on you being a
perfect manager, you know, like there's, there's kind of a, I could have made a
bad hire and that's going to happen. It didn't feel that high stakes. Now it
feels a little more high stakes. Cause it's my own business and this is kind of
how, you know, make a living.

So I do think that that helped a lot. Now there's plenty of people who do it
without that experience. But I think for me that having that like level of
experience and background. Did it give me a lot of confidence to make this
easier than it would have been had. I just started this straight out of college
or something.

[00:45:34] **Michaela:** And so what is it, what is the end goal for that
company? How, how large do you want to grow it as large as possible? Or, you
know, like, is there, is there some other areas where you think you could expand
to something different, like other services or other products that you could. 

[00:45:53] **Karl:** Yeah, I don't, I don't know.

I, I'm not like a, this is funny because like most startups, like they go into
it, like the funded [00:46:00] startups, they go into it with a very clear idea
of like how big they want to go and where they want to be, what their target
total addressable market is. Like, I don't really know all that stuff. This is
a, like, it's a lifestyle business in that.

It's fun to run. It's really interesting and challenging, and it is paying me
enough to get by. So like, I just kind of want to keep doing that. Now I do like
the sort of growing, because it exposes me, it forces me to learn new things.
That's been really fun. So like growing up. Like account managers had never
hired an account manager before.

So I got to learn what that's like and how do I give them work? How do I keep up
with them? How do we pass things? Right. Like all this really interesting, but
yeah, I just want to keep doing it as long as it's interesting and fun to, to
run and figure out is and provides challenges. Yeah. And we'll see, maybe in a
year or two it'll it'll get, it'll just keep getting bigger and I'll be out of
my control and I'll have to like, let somebody who's more experienced, run it or
maybe in a year or two it'll.

Like the same diseases today. It'll be fun to run. It'd be interesting. I really
don't know. To be honest. 

[00:46:59] **Michaela:** Yeah. I think it's perfectly fine. Not to know. There
are so many interesting paths that, you know, life can take. And so, yeah, I'm
really, really excited to talk with you about all of that and to see how it grew
out of.

Keep looking out for the business and probably checking in and ask you, like,
how many people do you have now? And I think it's, it's good to be open and just
explore and have fun on the way up, but there's not one, one right. Way to do
things. Right. So everybody's, 

[00:47:28] **Karl:** yeah. That's what I say to engineers all the time who are
like, aren't you afraid you're getting out of the tech or you're getting out of
engineering.

It's such a good feeling. I, yeah. I mean, maybe at first I was a little nervous
about that, but to be honest, like your career can take weird paths. Like a lot
of people have like winding career paths that don't necessarily just go linearly
from engineer to senior engineer, to lead developer, to whatever.

Like, so sometimes taking in diversion and doing something different for a few
years or months or something can like open up new [00:48:00] opportunities if
you come back. So if I came back to software engineering, Jump into something a
little different than I was doing before, or maybe I'd get into the technical
documentation or some con you know, hybrid skillset.

Like, so anyway, point being that, like, just because you studied something once
for a few years, doesn't mean you have to do it the rest of your life, that, you
know, you don't have to commit forever. There's a lot of tangential skills that
are, it's good to be, have some familiarity with software engineering, you know,
in the background.

So. 

[00:48:28] **Michaela:** Yeah. And I think, I mean, you're bringing so many new
skills, right? So in addition to the skills that you have, because to be really
fair at one point, like if you're like, let's say you're JavaScript engineer for
five years, for 10 years, like we are both in this industry probably even
longer. I'm definitely longer in this industry.

Right? So what's like me writing Java script for. You know, 15 years or 12
years, what's the difference here? Right? So where where's the difference? Well,
when you're exploring something else, suddenly you have a complete different
mental model. Again, you have seen so many other things and then you're coming
back, you're bringing actually so much value to the business, right?

And I think you are probably even a better engineer than just spending your time
just doing this engineering thing without trying to be. Focused on the one thing
that you're doing. So, yeah. And the other thing, maybe so we can wrap that up
is that when I started, when I started my business, I was really like, oh,
there's a ride in the wrong way to do things right.

Or listen to podcasts and read books and picked how others are doing it. Right.
And I mean, there are so many things you can be on Twitter, you can do condom
marketing, you can do DSR. And so it all felt like, oh, if you don't do this
right, if you don't have thousands of followers on whatever, right. Then you're
not going to make it.

And you know, this is all not true. You can do your own thing in so many ways.
You can have a wonderful business without being really [00:50:00] online without
having an online presence. You can have like a huge online presence and not as
driving business. Right. So. I think it's really important to understand what
drives you on one thing that you said is like, what gives you energy and what
drains you?

And I think this is more important, and obviously you will do things that drain
you for a short time, but you should really try it. Get rid of them and get more
energy flowing activities and maybe hire people or turn your business into
something else when you're, when you're facing those draining moments.

I think. 

[00:50:33] **Karl:** Yeah. Yeah. Those were, that was my exact struggle. When I
first started was feeling the same way. It's so funny you say that like, there
is a quote unquote right way to run a business. I thought, you know, and I
thought like, oh, well, if I don't follow the template, whatever that template
is, which you can't find, you know, like I follow that.

Yeah. I'm going to screw the whole thing up, but like, yeah, you're exactly
right. Is everybody carves their own path. And one of the hardest parts to me
about starting a business was not having a boss up the chain to just ask
questions about like, I've always been a very independent employee, but at the
same time, it's nice to be like, So, what do you think we should do here?

You know, like, look up, look back and just ask your boss questions. There's
nobody to do that to anymore. So now, I mean, I bugged my wife a lot. I bugged
my friends a lot, but like they don't, they're not going to know the same thing.
They don't have the same interests. So like, Hey, anyway. Yeah. Getting over
that is tough.

And it is something you just have to overcome and just be like, you know, go all
in on. Once you do accept it though, it's really liberating. And yeah, to your
point, you can run a business a lot of different ways and it's fun if you pursue
it that way. 

[00:51:35] **Michaela:** The most important thing is there is no right way. And
there are ways that worked for one person.

And it's not only how did executed it or the ideas that it had, but also the
circumstances that they have been in and so on. And, and I think it's just being
sensitive. I think that I'm sometimes a person that pushes really hard, which
isn't always a good thing. Right. So if it [00:52:00] takes so much. Maybe, you
know, another pass would be better, right?

Like if it, if it takes so much effort, this is something that I try to, to
realize early on that, you know, if this is now really hard, maybe it's not the
right thing. It's not meant. Right. So try something else, go step back and try
it in a different way. And then, you know, and then it will work out better, I
think.

Yeah, yeah, 

[00:52:24] **Karl:** yeah, yeah. Uh, that, that's definitely true too. There's a
lot of people who start businesses and think that it must be a. You know,
grinding uphill, battle, both ways. Like it's gotta be so hard and they have to
eat ramen for years. And like, I mean, I just don't think that that's a hundred
percent necessary if you're willing to be a little flexible in like what you do
and who you serve and how you serve them, because there's.

Ways out there to make a living, you know, with your own business. And they
don't, you know, you don't have to just pick one and stick with it forever. You
can kind of pivot around and move and figure out what works best. Find out
places where you can actually make a living and not have to work 80 hours a week
every week.

So yeah, definitely want to purse. Well, but again, that kind of comes back to
your goals. Like, what do you, what are you thinking you want to do? Like, do
you just have some idea you can't let go or are you trying to just make a good
living and have a lifestyle? Business. Like maybe I am. So, you know,
everybody's different.

Everybody's got their, their grand vision, I guess. Yeah. Yeah. 

[00:53:23] **Michaela:** That's really true. So thank you so much. I think we
are in the, at the end of this show today, is there something that you want to
tell my listeners, something that you want to give them on on the way, if you
haven't 

[00:53:35] **Karl:** talked about? Uh, no. I mean, yeah.

If anybody ever wants to. Chat more about this stuff. I'm on Twitter at Carlisle
Hughes. And then, you know, I'm happy to talk to you about like, if you ever
wanted to write some for draft, we always are looking for writers or just want
to talk business stuff or whatever else, engineering stuff. I love helping
people out.

[00:53:54] **Michaela:** Yeah. I will link everything in the show notes. So
thank you so much for being on my show to. I have a good [00:54:00] day. Thanks.
Bye. Bye. I hope you enjoyed another episode of the sup engineering unlocked
podcast. Don't forget to subscribe. And I talked to you again in two weeks. Bye.

